Johns Hopkins Fall Risk Assessment Tool If patient has any of the
following conditions, check the box and apply Fall Risk interventions as
indicated. High Fall Risk - Implement High Fall Risk interventions per
protocol 1) History of more than one fall within 6 months before
admission 2) Patient has experienced a fall during this hospitalization
3) Patient is deemed high fall-risk per protocol (e.g., seizure
precautions) Low Fall Risk - Implement Low Fall Risk interventions per
protocol 1) Complete paralysis or completely immobilized Do not continue
with Fall Risk Score Calculation if any of the above conditions are
checked. FALL RISK SCORE CALCULATION -- Select the appropriate option in
each category. Add all points to calculate Fall Risk Score. (If no
option is selected, score for category is 0) Age (single-select) 1. 60 -
69 years (1 point) 2. 70 -79 years (2 points) 3. greater than or equal
to 80 years (3 points) Fall History (single-select) 1. One fall within 6
months before admission (5 points) Elimination, Bowel and Urine
(single-select) 1. Incontinence (2 points) 2. Urgency or frequency (2
points) 3. Urgency/frequency and incontinence (4 points) Medications:
Includes PCA/opiates, anticonvulsants, anti-hypertensives, diuretics,
hypnotics, laxatives, sedatives, and psychotropics (single-select) 1. On
1 high fall risk drug (3 points) 2. On 2 or more high fall risk drugs (5
points) 3. Sedated procedure within past 24 hours (7 points) Patient
Care Equipment: Any equipment that tethers patient (e.g., IV infusion,
chest tube, indwelling catheter, SCDs, etc.) (single-select) 1. One
present (1 point) 2. Two present (2 points) 3. 3 or more present (3
points) Mobility (multi-select; choose all that apply and add points
together) 1. Requires assistance or supervision for mobility, transfer,
or ambulation (2 points) 2. Unsteady gait (2 points) 3. Visual or
auditory impairment affecting mobility (2 points) Cognition
(multi-select; choose all that apply and add points together) 1. Altered
awareness of immediate physical environment (1 point) 2. Impulsive (2
points) 3. Lack of understanding of one's physical and cognitive
limitations (4 points) Total Fall Risk Score (Sum of all points per
category) SCORING: 6-13 Total Points = Moderate Fall Risk, \>13 Total
Points = High Fall Risk


